To display the output (GUI or Console) of an Ubuntu 22.04 Virtual Machine created with Vagrant and VirtualBox, follow these steps.
By default, Vagrant runs machines in "headless" mode (no visible window). You must explicitly enable the VirtualBox GUI in the configuration to see the VM's display output. 
Step 1: Install Prerequisites
Ensure you have the necessary software installed on your host machine. 
Install VirtualBox: Download and install from the official website.
Install Vagrant: Download and install from the HashiCorp website.
Reboot: Reboot your computer to ensure network drivers and hypervisors are correctly loaded. 
OpenLogic
OpenLogic
 +4
Step 2: Initialize the Project
Open your terminal (Command Prompt, PowerShell, or Terminal) and set up the directory. 
Create a new folder for your project:
bash
mkdir ubuntu-vm
cd ubuntu-vm
Initialize the Vagrant environment with an Ubuntu 22.04 box:
bash
vagrant init generic/ubuntu2204
Note: The generic/ubuntu2204 box is a standard, widely used base box. 
conclusion.nl
conclusion.nl
 +1
Step 3: Configure GUI Mode (Crucial Step) 
To display the VM output on your screen, you must edit the Vagrantfile generated in the previous step.
Open the Vagrantfile in a text editor (e.g., Notepad, VS Code).
Locate the config.vm.provider "virtualbox" block. It is often commented out.
Add or uncomment the line vb.gui = true. 
Your configuration should look like this:
ruby
Vagrant.configure("2") do |config|
  config.vm.box = "generic/ubuntu2204"

  config.vm.provider "virtualbox" do |vb|
    # Display the VirtualBox GUI window
    vb.gui = true
    
    # Optional: Customize memory and CPUs
    vb.memory = "2048"
    vb.cpus = 2
  end
end
Setting vb.gui = true forces VirtualBox to open a window showing the VM's display output instead of running in the background. 
Stack Overflow
Stack Overflow
 +2
Step 4: Deploy the Machine 
Run the command to download the image and start the virtual machine: 
bash
vagrant up
What happens: Vagrant will download the Ubuntu 22.04 ISO/box (if not already cached), import it into VirtualBox, and boot it.
The Output: Because you enabled vb.gui = true, a VirtualBox window will pop up immediately, showing the boot process and the login prompt. 
Stack Overflow
Stack Overflow
 +2
Step 5: Installing a Graphical Desktop (Optional) 
Most Vagrant boxes (like generic/ubuntu2204) are Server versions, meaning the "output" you see in the window will just be a black command-line text interface (TTY). If you want a full graphical desktop (like Windows or macOS), you must install a desktop environment. 
Add this provisioning script to your Vagrantfile before the final end tag to automatically install a lightweight desktop (XFCE) or the full Ubuntu desktop: 
ruby
  # Install basic GUI Desktop (XFCE) for visual output
  config.vm.provision "shell", inline: <<-SHELL
    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install -y xfce4 virtualbox-guest-utils virtualbox-guest-x11
    sudo systemctl set-default graphical.target
    # Start the GUI immediately
    sudo systemctl isolate graphical.target
  SHELL
After adding this, run vagrant reload --provision to apply changes. 
Stack Overflow
Stack Overflow
 +1
Summary of Commands
vagrant up: Starts the machine and opens the display window.
vagrant ssh: Connects to the machine via terminal (no GUI required).
vagrant halt: Shuts down the machine.
vagrant destroy: Deletes the machine completely.
